Dataset used: Tableau Joins File: Contains 3 sheets : Demographics, Salary, Job Title
1. Connecting to Excel Files in Tableau:
 Open Tableau and click on Connect in the left pane.
 Under To a File, choose Microsoft Excel.
 Browse and select your Excel file (Tableau Joins File.xlsx).
 Tableau will display the sheets from the Excel file in the Data Source tab.
 Drag the relevant sheets to the workspace.
2. Tableau Joins File.xlsx Dataset: has three Excel sheets
 Demographics:
 EmployeeID
 NameofEmployee
 EmployeeAge
 EmployeeGender
 Salary:
 EmployeeID
 EmployeeSalary
These sheets have a relationship based on the EmployeeID, and you can join them using this field.
Drag and drop Demographics table- Right click-select open- that allows you to do following types of joins.
Now Drag and drop Salary table - That allows you to do join of your choice.
3. Types of Joins in Tableau:
Once both tables are in the Data Source tab, Tableau automatically suggests an inner join, but you can modify the type of join depending on the scenario.
a. Inner Join:
 Description: Returns only records where there is a match in both tables.
 How to Create in Tableau:
 Drag Demographics and Salary sheets into the canvas.
 Tableau automatically detects the common field (EmployeeID). If not, manually select it.
 Choose Inner Join in the Join Type options.
 Result: You will see only employees whose employee id matches in both Demographics and Salary table.
 b. Left Join:
 Description: Returns all records from the left table (Demographics), and matched records from the right table (salary). If there’s no match, NULL values are returned for fields from the right table.
 How to Create in Tableau:
 In the join settings, select Left Join.
 Result: All employees will be returned, even if data missing in Salary. Salary information will be NULL for those without a match.
c. Right Join:
 Description: Returns all records from the right table (Salary), and matched records from the left table (Demographics). If there’s no match, NULL values are returned for fields from the left table.
 How to Create in Tableau:
 Select Right Join.
 Result: You will see all salary, even if they don't have employee id. Employee information will be NULL for those salary with no matching employee id.
d. Full Outer Join:
 Description: Returns all records when there is a match in either the left (Demographics) or right (Job Title) table. If there’s no match, NULL values are returned for the missing side.
 How to Create in Tableau:
 Select Full Outer Join.
 Result: You will see all employees and all salary, even if they don’t have a match in the other table. NULL values will appear where there’s no corresponding record.
AY: 2024 – 25 Data Visualization Lab (BAIL504)
26
4. Creating a Visualization Based on Joins:
After performing the joins, you can build different visualizations. Press on Sheet 1:
For example:
 Bar Chart: Number of employees and their salary.
 Drag NameofEmployee to Columns.
 Drag EmployeeSalary to Rows.

This chart will display the number of employees and their salary based on the type of
 join.Sort it in decending
 Drag EmployeeSalary to Marks - Select color Color, Label

