Step 1: Connect to Data
1. Open Tableau Desktop.
2. Connect to Your Data Source:
a) Click on Connect on the left sidebar.
b) Choose your data source by selecting text file and load your vgsales dataset into Tableau.
Step 2: Create a Basic Visualization Create a New Worksheet:
a) Click on the Sheet tab at the bottom of the screen.
Drag Fields to Shelves:
a) Drag Year to the Columns shelf.
b) Drag Global Sales to the Rows shelf.
c) Drag EU Sales to the Rows shelf. That gives the line graph visualization.
 Change Visualization Type:
In the Show Me panel on the right, select a bar chart or any other type that suits your needs.
Step 3: Format the Chart
 Format Axes:
a) Right-click on the Global Sales axis and select Format.
b) In the Format pane, adjust the font style & size as needed.
 Add Titles and Annotations:
a) Click on the chart title area and enter a descriptive title - Global Sales by Year.
b) Add annotations if needed to highlight specific data points – Right click the on the chart which you want to highlight - Select Annotate - Select Mark - Press Ok
Step 4: Add Filters
Add a Filter for Year:
Drag Year to the Filters shelf.
Choose the range of years you want to display (e.g., 2000-2016).
Step 5: Create Calculated Fields
 Create a Calculated Field for Sales Category:
a) Right-click on Global Sales - Select Create - Calculated Field.
b) Give name to your calculations as Global Sales - EU Sales
c) Do calculations as per your need - [Global Sales] - [EU Sales]
d) Press Ok
Add Calculated Fields to Visualization:
a) Drag Global Sales-EU Sales to the Rows shelf to show Global Sales over Year with Global Sales-EU Sales over Year.
Step 6: Create a Parameter:
Name: "Select Genre"
 Data Type: String
 Values: List (e.g., "Action", "Adventure", "Shooter") or Add values from Genre.
 Create a Calculated Field:
 Name: "Sales by Genre"
 Formula:
 IF [Genre] = [Select Genre] THEN [Global Sales] ELSE 0 END
Build the Visualization:
 Columns: Drag "Year".
 Rows: Drag "Sales by Genre".
 At the right side of your sheet you can select required Genre and can see different Visualization Visualization by Genre: Fighting
