Power BI includes the following components −
 Power BI Desktop − This is used to create reports and data visualizations on the dataset.
 Power BI Gateway − You can use Power BI on-premises gateway to keep your data fresh by connecting to your on-premises data sources without the need to move the data. It allows you to query large datasets and benefit from the existing investments.
 Power BI Mobile Apps − Using Power BI mobile apps, you can stay connected to their data from anywhere. Power BI apps are available for Windows, iOS, and Android platform.
 Power BI Service − This is a cloud service and is used to publish Power BI reports and data visualizations
 A visualization (or visual), is a type of chart built by Power BI designers. The visuals display the data from reports and semantic models. Because they're highly interactive, you can slice, filter, highlight, change, and even drill into visualizations.
 A semantic model is a container of data. For example, it might be an Excel file from the World Health Organization. It might also be a company-owned database of customers, or it might be a Salesforce file. And it might be all three if the designer combines them into a single model. Designers manage semantic models. The data contained in semantic models is used to build reports, dashboards, and apps that designers share with you.
 A dashboard is a single screen with tiles of interactive visuals, text, and graphics. A dashboard collects your most important metrics, or a focused set of metrics, on one screen, to tell a story or answer a question. The dashboard content comes from one or more reports and one or more semantic models.
 A report is one or more pages of interactive visuals, text, and graphics that together make up a single report. Power BI bases a report on a single semantic model. Often, the designer organizes report pages to each address a central area of interest or answer a single question.
 An app is a way for designers to bundle and share related dashboards, reports, and semantic models together. Business users receive some apps automatically but can go search for other apps created by colleagues or by the community. For example, out-of- the-box apps are available for external services you may already use, like Google Analytics and Microsoft Dynamics CRM.
