Power BI Desktop also includes the Power Query Editor, which opens in a separate window.
In Power Query Editor, you can build queries and transform data, then load the refined data model into Power BI Desktop to create reports.
Along the left side of Power BI Desktop are icons for the three Power BI Desktop views: Report, Data, and Model, from top to bottom. The current view is indicated by the yellow bar along the left, and you can change views by selecting any of the icons.
With Power BI Desktop installed, we can connect to the world of data. To see the many types of data sources available,
Once Power BI screen is seen click on blank Report
Step 1 : Select Get Data in the Power BI Desktop Home tab, and in the Get Data window, scroll through the list of All data sources.(like Excel,CSV,Oracle….)On the Power BI Desktop Home tab, select Get Data > Excel workbook
2. Click on the file you need and open the file, once you open the file below window with navigator appears, select the file (2nd option to see the contents of the file)
3. At this point you can select Load to load the table, or Transform data to make changes in the table before you load it.
4. When you select Transform data, Power Query Editor launches, with a representative view of the table. The Query Settings pane is on the right, or you can always show it by selecting Query Settings on the View tab of Power Query Editor.
Transforming the data
Once connected to a data source, you can adjust the data to meet your needs.To transform the data, you provide Power Query Editor with step-by-step instructions for adjusting the data while loading and presenting it. Transforming doesn't affect the original data source, only this particular view of the data.
Transforming the data, includes renaming columns or tables, removing rows or columns, or changing data types.To Change a data type
 Select the column or columns to change.
 Hold down the Shift key to select several adjacent columns, or Ctrl to select non- adjacent columns.
 Either right-click a column header, select Change Type,
 choose a new data type from the menu, or drop down the list next to Data Type in the Transform group of the Home tab,
 select a new data type.
To Reduce/Delete the Rows
 From the Home tab select
 Reduce Rows > Remove Rows > Remove Bottom Rows.
 In the Remove Bottom Rows dialog box, enter 10, and then select OK.
To Remove columns
 From Home Tab Select Manage Columns group select Remove Columns.
 You can also right-click one of the selected column headers and select Remove Columns from the menu.
 The selected columns are removed, and the step Removed Columns appears in Applied Steps.
Applied steps in the Query setting pane
Right-click any step in the Applied Steps pane and choose to delete it, rename it, move it up or down in the sequence, or add or delete steps after it.
For intermediate steps, Power BI Desktop will warn you if the change could affect later steps and break your query.
Once all the required transformations are done the report should be created in the Power BI Desktop
 Apply the changes in Power Query Editor and load them into Power BI Desktop
 Selecting Close & Apply from the Home tab of the ribbon.
 You can also select just Apply to keep the query open in Power Query Editor while you work in Power BI Desktop.
The Visualizations pane shows information about the visualization and lets you modify it.
1. The Fields option in the Visualization pane lets you drag data fields to Legend and other field wells in the pane.
2. The Format option lets you apply formatting and other controls to visualizations.
3. The icons show the type of visualization created. You can change the type of a selected visualization by selecting a different icon, or create a new visualization by selecting an icon with no existing visualization selected
4. The options available in the Fields and Format areas depend on the type of visualization and data you have.
5. You want your map visualization to show only the top 10 weather states.

